---
sidebar_position: 6
---
# Data Types

On-chain data on the Mantis rollup comes from:

**Pyth Network**

Oracles are critical for crypto transactions as they ensure that asset prices are up-to-date and accurate. Because of oracles, users receive fair trades based on the current market conditions.

[Pyth Network](https://pyth.network/) is a leading oracle provider, delivering real-time data for not only cryptocurrencies but also equities, foreign exchange, and commodities.

On Mantis, Pyth will be used to measure the difference between how a solver executes a transaction against their proposed solution. This will be important in slashing solvers.

Mantis is also opting to implement Pyth as an oracle provider since Pyth has a strong reputation for providing real-time data on many asset types. Moreover, Pyth has a specific oracle implementation for Solana. Thus, this oracle can be seamlessly integrated into the Mantis Solana-based rollup.

**_More About Pyth:_**

Pyth Network offers the following products:

- [Price Feeds](https://docs.pyth.network/price-feeds) provide real-time prices. There are 500+ data feeds for 350+ apps with 90 million+ updates per day. Data is available from over 55 blockchains including many EVM chains, Aptos, Sui, NEAR, and several Cosmos chains.
- [Benchmarks](https://docs.pyth.network/benchmarks) provide historical Pyth prices for on- and off-chain use.

Pyth is uniquely designed to incentivize participants to continually update asset prices. These feeds are published on-chain by various data publishers. From here, data can be read by various programs or applications. Then, an on-chain program produces an aggregate price feed based off of the prices provided by all data publishers. These publishers are incentivized to continually update their data by earning fees, which are generated by the fees paid by consumers.

**Synternet**

Mantis is collaborating with [Synternet](https://www.synternet.com/) to direct relevant data streams to solvers in our network. This data will encompass all information necessary for providing and then executing upon solutions to user intents. This includes data from blockchains and protocols. As a result, solvers will be able to have ongoing and instantaneous access to relevant data. This empowers solvers on Mantis to perform their role as efficiently as possible. Users will subsequently benefit from reduced latency and the certainty that solutions are generated based on accurate information.

**_More About Synternet:_**

Synternet believes that the future of the internet depends upon the accessibility of permissionless, interoperable data. To deliver upon this vision for the future, Synternet provides real-time, permissionless infrastructure using composable data streams.

In particular, Synternet has created the Data Layer protocol on their blockchain. This protocol has [recently launched on Cosmos mainnet](https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/currencies/synternet-mainnet-is-now-live-with-monaco-launch-on-cosmos-1033512114). The Data Layer enables the cross-chain flow of universal, real-time data such as price feeds, volumes, and liquidity depths. Participants in this protocol are:

- **Publishers:** Entities that deliver on-chain data
- **Subscribers:** Entities that receive on-chain data
- **Brokers:** Network nodes relaying data between publishers and subscribers
- **Observers:** Nodes that monitor data delivery

Synternet’s real-time data streaming structure eliminates the need for data requests and replies. This results in a decreased computational burden and lower centralization risk.

The Synternet Data Layer can be accessed via their [Data Layer SDK](https://github.com/Synternet/data-layer-sdk). Projects can use the SDK to leverage Synternet’s data streams to support their own cross-chain use cases. This is precisely what Mantis is doing for the current collaboration.
